# Identifying duplicate cases

- [Identifying duplicate cases](#identifying-duplicate-cases)
    - [1. Duplicate search](#1-duplicate-search)
        - [1.1. Duplicate cases](#11-duplicate-cases)
        - [1.2. Search duplicate cases step](#12-search-duplicate-cases-step)
        - [1.3. Customizations to the search duplicate step behavior](#13-customizations-to-the-search-duplicate-step-behavior)
        - [1.4. Duplicate case analysis](#14-duplicate-case-analysis)

## 1. Duplicate search

### 1.1. Duplicate cases

A user may create a case that has the same data values as another case in the system. For example, two purchase requests may have the same request date and list of items, or the same customer name. In this scenario, where a specific combination of data values or unique identifiers match, the new case may be a duplicate.

### 1.2. Search duplicate cases step

- PEGA provides the search duplicate cases process to help users identify and resolve duplicate cases. 
- This process is implemented in the case life cycle as a **Search duplicate cases** step. 
- When a case enters the step, the system uses **basic conditions*8 and **weighted conditions** to compare specific property values with cases already present in the system.

<dl>
    <dt>Basic conditions</dt>
    <dd>When a case enters the Search duplicate cases step, the system evaluates the basic conditions, to limit the number of cases that are checked as duplicates.</dd>
    <dd>Existing cases must meet all basic conditions for the current case to be considered a potential duplicate.</dd>
</dl>

<dl>
    <dt>Weighted conditions</dt>
    <dd>If cases are found that meet the basic conditions, the system continues to evaluate the weighted conditions: each condition has a value (between 1 and 100) to indicate the relative importance of a condition when making the comparisons.</dd>
    <dd>For each condition that evaluates to true, the system adds the weighted value and if the total for a case meets or exceeds the threshold value, the case is flagged as a potential duplicate.</dd>
</dl>

### 1.3. Customizations to the search duplicate step behavior

When a user decides the current case is a duplicate they can resolve it with a Resolved-Duplicate status and processing of the case terminates.

### 1.4. Duplicate case analysis

In the example of the health care services application, 

1. the patient date of birth is the **basic condition**.
2. The surgeon name, surgical type, procedure, and procedure date are **weighted conditions** with a value of `25` each and a **threshold** of `50`.
3. The system displays the case entered on March 18 as a duplicate because the date of birth, surgeon name, surgical type, procedure date, and procedure match the values in the original case, and because the **total weighted condition** value is `100`, exceeding the matching **threshold** of `50`. 
4. The user decides that the second request is a duplicate and resolves the case as **Resolved-Duplicate**.
5. The user then continues with the initial case and provides the hospital administrator with the original authorization code.
